Update OIN Guide - allow SPA using PKCE (#1998)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/oin-oidc-guide/protocol-level-requirements/index.md

title: Protocol-level requirements
---

### Authorization Code flow

> For OIDC applications destined for the OIN, Okta recommends building a "web" application with a dedicated server-side back end capable of securely storing a Client Secret and exchanging information with an authorization server through trusted back-channel connections.

Reviewer: Please leave "that is" in. It is helpful in translation to make **that** a dependent clause and it cues the translator that **capable** modifies **back end**

```suggestion
For OIDC applications destined for the OIN, Okta recommends building a web application with a dedicated server-side back end that is capable of securely storing a Client Secret and exchanging information with an authorization server through trusted back-channel connections.
```

If you are planning to build a Single Page App (SPA), see the [Authorization Code flow with PKCE](#authorization-code-flow-with-pkce) section.

The exchange of the short-lived authorization code for a token requires a Client Secret. This secret is a value that only your client application and the authorization server know, and you must protect it from malicious parties.

The server-side app also requires an end user because it relies on interaction with the end user's web browser to redirect the user and then receive the authorization code. The end user and the user agent do not see the access token issued by Okta or any part of the authentication response.

The Authorization Code flow is the recommended flow for controlling access to an OIDC application in the OIN context.

For an OIN app, the Authorization Code flow looks like the following:

> * Your end user (also known as the Resource Owner) opens their web browser (the User Agent) so that they can access and work with your application (the Client). The Client requires information from various back-end infrastructure elements (the Resource Server), usually an API or service. By clicking on a sign-in link or an icon on their Okta dashboard, the end user grants authorization to your application and initiates the Authorization Code flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your end user (also known as the Resource Owner) opens their web browser (the User Agent) to access and work with your application (the Client). The Client requires information from various back-end infrastructure elements (the Resource Server), usually an API or service. By clicking a sign-in link or an icon on their Okta dashboard, the end user grants authorization to your application and initiates the Authorization Code flow.
```

* Your Client prepares an authentication request to authenticate the end user (or determine if the end user is authenticated already). This request is composed of specific required parameters and is sent to the Okta `/authorize` endpoint:
  * `client_id` &mdash; this value is the Okta client ID created for you when you made your Okta app integration and is available in your Okta app integration settings
  * `nonce` &mdash; a value returned in the ID token to mitigate against replay attacks
  * `redirect_uri` &mdash; the location where the response is sent. This value, which must start with `https://`, is set in your Okta app integrations settings
  * `response_type=code` &mdash; this informs Okta (as the authorization server) that you want to get back an access token and an ID token in exchange for the authorization code

>   * `scope` &mdash; must contain `openid` to indicate that this is an OIDC request and you want to get back an ID token. You can add optional scopes to your request to limit the user information returned

Reviewer: parallelism

```suggestion
  * `scope` &mdash; must contain `openid` to indicate that this is an OIDC request and that you want to get back an ID token. You can add optional scopes to your request to limit the user information returned
```

  * `state` &mdash; a value returned in the token. The client application can use it to remember the state of its interaction with the end user at the time of the authentication call

> * Your application sends a redirect response to the browser containing the composed authentication request. The browser interprets the redirect and sends the authentication request to the `/authorize` endpoint on the Okta authorization server over secure HTTPS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your application sends a redirect response to the browser that contains the composed authentication request. The browser interprets the redirect and sends the authentication request to the `/authorize` endpoint on the Okta authorization server over secure HTTPS.
```

> * Okta then sends the browser to an Okta sign-in page which asks the end user to provide authentication and consent to the requested scopes, or confirms that the user is already authenticated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Okta then sends the browser to an Okta sign-in page that asks the end user to provide authentication and consent to the requested scopes or confirms that the user is already authenticated.
```

Author: The sentence turns into a run-on without that comma.

> * The end user provides proof of identity (using any of the supported authentication methods) and gives consent for any requested claims defined in your `scopes` parameter. These claims are specific pieces of information to be included in the token provided by Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The end user provides proof of identity (using any of the supported authentication methods) and gives consent for any requested claims defined in your `scopes` parameter. These claims are specific pieces of information that are included in the token provided by Okta.
```

> * The browser receives an authorization code response from the Okta authorization server. If there is an error or the authentication fails for any reason, the browser returns the error to the end user. If the authentication is successful, the Okta authorization server issues an authorization code value and includes it in a redirect that sends the browser over to the Client at the Login Redirect URI callback location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The browser receives an authorization code response from the Okta Authorization Server. If there is an error or the authentication fails for any reason, the browser returns the error to the end user. If the authentication is successful, the Okta Authorization Server issues an authorization code value and includes it in a redirect that sends the browser over to the client at the **Login Redirect URI** callback location.
```

Author: Leaving "the Client" as that this section discusses it as a Proper Noun. Other changes made.

* The Client (your application) then submits a request to the Okta `/token` endpoint using the authorization code value and the Client Secret. If both are valid, then Okta returns:
  * `access_token` &mdash; this token is restricted to give access only to what the end user authorized for your application
  * `token_type=Bearer` &mdash; this identifies the authentication method used
  * `expires_in` &mdash; the expiration time for the access token (in seconds)
  * `scope` &mdash; the scopes that are contained in the access token
  * `id_token` &mdash; the ID token contains the specific info (in JWT format) about the authentication and the end user that is needed by the application
  * Optional. `refresh_token` &mdash; this token is returned if the `offline_access` scope is granted. This token can be exchanged for a new access token if the previous access token has expired
* The access token is then used by your application to retrieve the protected resources and information requested at the Resource Server for the end user.

The Authorization Code flow depends on Okta and your SaaS back-end systems being able to securely communicate the Client Secret.

> Note that your application needs to verify user identity through a user store. Otherwise, your app could be spoofed by fake applications in the Android or Apple app stores, or an end user could view and possibly modify your code. For this reason, native and mobile app integrations are not acceptable for OIDC app integrations in the OIN. You must set up your application to use an authentication flow so that your client application talks to your SaaS back-end, which then communicates with Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Your application needs to verify user identity through a user store. Otherwise, your app could be spoofed by fake applications in the Android or Apple app stores, or an end user could view and possibly modify your code. For this reason, native and mobile app integrations aren't acceptable for OIDC app integrations in the OIN. You must set up your application to use an authentication flow so that your client application talks to your SaaS back end, which then communicates with Okta.
```

To support the potentially large numbers of Okta orgs accessing it through the OIN, an OIDC integration can't use a custom authorization server, including the `default` server. You can only use the [Org Authorization Server](https://developer.okta.com/docs/concepts/auth-servers/#available-authorization-server-types).

> Another general outline of the Authorization Code flow is in our Okta developer guide: [Implement the Authorization Code Flow](/docs/guides/implement-auth-code/overview/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another general outline of the Authorization Code flow is in our Okta developer guide: [Implement the Authorization Code flow](/docs/guides/implement-auth-code/overview/)
```

Author: Need to update the guide titles to match

> Also, if you have used SAML for SSO in the past, it’s important to realize that the OIDC flow is different. The OIDC protocol doesn't just provide an assertion to exchange between Okta and your SaaS back-end but uses a long-term token that can be used for callback into Okta at any point as long as the token is valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, if you have used SAML for SSO in the past, it’s important to realize that the OIDC flow is different. The OIDC protocol doesn't just provide an assertion to exchange between Okta and your SaaS back end, but uses a long-term token that you can use for callback into Okta at any point as long as the token is valid.
```

### Authorization Code flow with PKCE

> f you are building a Single Page Application (SPA) for the OIN, then Okta recommends using the Authorization Code flow with a Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) to control the access between your application and a resource server. See our [OAuth 2.0 overview](/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/#authorization-code-with-pkce) for more information on the authorization code with PKCE flow, including why to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are building a Single Page Application (SPA) for the OIN, then Okta recommends using the Authorization Code flow with a Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) to control the access between your application and a resource server. See our [OAuth 2.0 overview](/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/#authorization-code-with-pkce) for more information on the Authorization Code with PKCE flow, including why to use it.
```

Author: Whoop - how did I miss that!

Just like with the regular Authorization Code flow, your app starts by redirecting the end user's browser to your [Authorization Server's](/docs/concepts/auth-servers/) `/authorize` endpoint. However, in this instance, you also have to pass along a code challenge.

Your first step is to generate a code verifier and challenge:

> * Code verifier: Random URL-safe string with a minimum length of 43 characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Code verifier: Random URL-safe string with a minimum length of 43 characters
```

> * Code challenge: Base64 URL-encoded SHA-256 hash of the code verifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Code challenge: Base64 URL-encoded SHA-256 hash of the code verifier
```

You need to add code in your SPA app to create the code verifier and code challenge.

The Authorization Code flow with PKCE looks like this for an OIN app:

> * Your end user (also known as the Resource Owner) opens the SPA app in their browser so that they can access and work with your application (the Client). The Client requires information from various back-end infrastructure elements (the Resource Server), usually an API or service. By clicking on a sign-in link, the end user grants authorization to your application and initiates the Authorization Code flow with PKCE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your end user (also known as the Resource Owner) opens the SPA app in their browser to access and work with your application (the Client). The Client requires information from various back-end infrastructure elements (the Resource Server), usually an API or service. By clicking a sign-in link, the end user grants authorization to your application and initiates the Authorization Code flow with PKCE.
```

* Your client application prepares an authentication request to authenticate the end user. This request is composed of specific required parameters and is sent to the Okta `/authorize` endpoint with a code challenge:

>   * `client_id` &mdash; this value is the Okta client ID created for you when you made your Okta app integration and is available in your Okta app integration settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `client_id` &mdash; the Okta client ID created for you when you made your Okta app integration and is available in your Okta app integration settings
```

  * `redirect_uri` &mdash; the location where the response is sent. This value, which must start with `https://`, is set in your Okta app integrations settings

>   * `response_type=code` &mdash; this informs Okta (as the authorization server) that you want to get back an access token and an ID token in exchange for the authorization code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `response_type=code` &mdash; informs Okta (as the authorization server) that you want to get back an access token and an ID token in exchange for the authorization code
```

  * `state` &mdash; an arbitrary value returned in the token. The client application can use it to remember the state of its interaction with the end user at the time of the authentication call
  * `scope` &mdash; must contain `openid` to indicate that you want to get back an ID token from the `/token` endpoint

>   * `code_challenge` &mdash; the PKCE code challenge you previously generated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `code_challenge` &mdash; the PKCE code challenge that you previously generated
```

>   * `code_challenge_method` &mdash; the hash method used to generate the challenge value; this value is always `S256`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `code_challenge_method` &mdash; the hash method used to generate the challenge value. This value is always `S256`.
```

Author: OK - clarified use of periods with Susan in slack chat.

> * Your application sends a redirect response to the browser containing the composed authentication request. The browser interprets the redirect and sends the authentication request to the `/authorize` endpoint on the Okta authorization server over secure HTTPS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your application sends a redirect response to the browser that contains the composed authentication request. The browser interprets the redirect and sends the authentication request to the `/authorize` endpoint on the Okta Authorization Server over secure HTTPS.
```

> * Okta then sends the browser to an Okta sign-in page which asks the end user to provide authentication and consent to the requested scopes, or confirms that the user is already authenticated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Okta then sends the browser to an Okta sign-in page that asks the end user to provide authentication and consent to the requested scopes or confirms that the user is already authenticated.
```

Author: Re-written as above:
> Okta then sends the browser to a sign-in page that either asks the end user to provide authentication and consent to the requested scopes or confirms that Okta has authenticated the user.

> * The end user provides proof of identity (using any of the supported authentication methods) and gives consent for any requested claims defined in your `scopes` parameter. The claims are specific pieces of information to be included in the token provided by Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The end user provides proof of identity (using any of the supported authentication methods) and gives consent for any requested claims defined in your `scopes` parameter. The claims are specific pieces of information that are included in the token provided by Okta.
```

> * The browser receives an authorization code response from the Okta authorization server. If there is an error or the authentication fails for any reason, the browser returns the error to the end user. If the authentication is successful, the Okta authorization server issues an authorization code value and includes it in a redirect that sends the browser over to the Client at the **Login Redirect URI** callback location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The browser receives an authorization code response from the Okta Authorization Server. If there is an error or the authentication fails for any reason, the browser returns the error to the end user. If the authentication is successful, the Okta Authorization Server issues an authorization code value and includes it in a redirect that sends the browser over to the client at the **Login Redirect URI** callback location.
```

Author: Leaving "the Client" as a proper noun. All other changes made.

* The Client (your application) then submits a request to the Okta `/token` endpoint using:
  * The authorization `code` value
  * The `code_verifier` value

>   * A `grant_type` specifying `authorization_code`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * A `grant_type` that specifies `authorization_code`
```

Author: Changed to
> A `grant_type` of `authorization_code`

  * The `client_id` and the `redirect_uri` for your app
* If both the code and the verifier are valid, then Okta returns:

>   * `access_token` &mdash; this token is restricted to give access only to what the end user authorized for your application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `access_token` &mdash; restricted to give access only to what the end user authorized for your application
```

Author: Fixed here and above (line 32)

>   * `token_type=Bearer` &mdash; this identifies the authentication method used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `token_type=Bearer` &mdash; identifies the authentication method used
```

  * `expires_in` &mdash; the expiration time for the access token (in seconds)
  * `scope` &mdash; the scopes that are contained in the access token

>   * `id_token` &mdash; the ID token contains the specific info (in JWT format) about the authentication and the end user that is needed by the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `id_token` &mdash; contains specific info (in JWT format) about the authentication and the end user that is needed by the application
```

Author: Fixed here and above (line 36)

>   * Optional. `refresh_token` &mdash; this token is returned if the `offline_access` scope is granted. This token can be exchanged for a new access token if the previous access token has expired

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Optional. `refresh_token` &mdash; returned if the `offline_access` scope is granted. You can exchange this token for a new access token if the previous access token is expired
```

Author: Fixed here and above (line 37)

1. **Login Redirect URI** &mdash; after being successfully authorized by Okta, this is the callback location where the user is directed to along with the authorization code. This URI must exactly match the Redirect URI value pre-registered in the Okta app integration settings
2. Optional. **Initiate Login URI** &mdash; this URI is used if the application is launched from the Okta dashboard (known as an IdP-initiated flow) and you want your Okta integration to handle redirecting your users to your application to start the sign-in request. When end users click your app in their Okta dashboard, they are redirected to the `initiate_login_uri` of the client application, which constructs the authentication request and redirects the end user back to the authorization server. This URI must exactly match the Initiate URI value pre-registered in the Okta app integration settings

> 3. Optional. **Post Logout Redirect URI** &mdash; this URI is a location to send the user after a sign off operation is performed and their session is terminated; otherwise, the user is redirected back to the Okta sign-in page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Optional. **Post Logout Redirect URI** &mdash; a location to send the user after a sign off operation is performed and their session is terminated. Otherwise, the user is redirected back to the Okta Sign-In Page.
```

Author: Removed "Okta" from the sign-in page (as it could be a non-Okta sign-in page), so leaving it as lower case. Other suggested changes made.

### Token validation

For checking access tokens, the `/introspect` [endpoint](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#introspect) takes your token as a URL query parameter and then returns a simple JSON response with the boolean `active` property.

As OIN app integrations can’t use custom auth servers, you must use remote token validation (through the Introspection API endpoint) for access tokens and local validation for ID tokens.

This remote validation incurs a network cost, but you can use it when you want to guarantee that the access token hasn't been revoked.

### Key rotation

The standard behavior in identity and access management is to rotate the keys used to sign tokens. Okta changes these keys typically four times a year (every 90 days), but that rotation schedule can change without notice. Okta automatically rotates the keys for your authorization server on a regular basis.

> Your OIDC client should periodically query the `/keys` endpoint and retrieve the JSON Web Key Set. This key set contains the public keys used to verify the signatures of the tokens received from Okta. You can cache the keys to improve performance, but be aware that verification will fail when Okta automatically rotates the keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your OIDC client should periodically query the `/keys` endpoint and retrieve the JSON Web Key Set. This key set contains the public keys used to verify the signatures of the tokens received from Okta. You can cache the keys to improve performance, but be aware that verification fails when Okta automatically rotates the keys.
```
